# Smart-Kitchen
The domain of using the Internet is continuously shifting and evolving. In the past, Internet communication was human to human based.  With the advancement of technologies, this paradigm has been shifted into the machine to machine communication and introduced the emerging concept of the Internet of Things (IoT) connecting anyone or anything at any time and any place through the Internet (Khan et al. 2012). The central concept is adding sensors with anything that allow the communication among them through the Internet so that they can always be connected. Those sensors mainly generate data where the internet carry those data as the carrier and virtualize resource concept of cloud provide all computational and processing power to make the decision and provide astonishing services by IoT applications. With the advent of cloud facilities, so many IoT applications evolved within a short time around the world such as environmental protection, health monitoring, intelligent search, smart traffic, smart city and so on. Moreover, the application of networked home appliances is increasing over time and with the assistance of those appliances and cloud services we aim to design our project which is a Smart Kitchen.

We plan to append intelligence into conventional machines such as refrigerator, coffee machine, gas cylinder, water tap and so on by adding sensors and collaborating them with cloud services. The smart kitchen project aims to provide online-based services to reduce some kitchen-centric hassle. We intend to provide services including notification for the groceries (egg, bread, milk, meat, fish, vegetables) if they finish instantly, generating weekly grocery shopping list, providing price matching web services (suggesting the lowest price and the name of the shop), tracking daily water and gas consumption and detecting gas leakage or high temperature in the kitchen.

This project aims to contribute to any other massive IoT application domain such as a smart city. In that case, a smart kitchen can be considered a small initiative with limited scope. However, this project emphasises more on the integration of cloud services to promote new featured IoT application to increase the level of human comfort, safety and track resource consumption to ensure the sustainability in the smart kitchen environment.
